---
title: "2023"
date: 2023-12-13 08:23:22
tags:
  - reflection
---

This year has been one hell of a ride. A nice, stressful and fulfilling one. It's been wrought with a lot of massive Ws and Ls. And it's left me permanently blessed and scarred.


I met my son at the end of January, I vividly remember how we rushed to the hospital and the events that led to an emergency c-section, it all happened so fast and just like that he was here. The months that followed were one of the hardest I've ever experienced. I barely slept, ate, and I obviously didn't exercise. I tried to start many routines without success, I ended up just going with the flow and doing work/cleaning whenever I had the chance.

I bought a piece of land to build a house for my parents, doesn't really seem like an achievement because it kind of feels like something one should have, haha. Alas, we didn't have one and maybe in a few years we would. Apparently property is now very expensive I was shocked, where are you guys seeing 300k piece of land to buy 🤧😭?

I turned 30. Didn't feel different (still don't tbh) but my back hurts and knees hurt a little when I run. F old age lmao. I still don't feel like an "adult" (prob never will), I guess that only happens to people who take themselves seriously KEKW.

July was weird, it was both awesome and fucked up beyond measure. I went on a company trip to Kenya; for the first time in my life I travelled on my own, I went go-karting, ate great tasting food and bonded with my co-workers. 

At the tail end of July, it was like any other random sunday, I was taking clothes out of the washing machine, I got a call from my elder brother's close friend. I didn't see it initially because my phone is always on DND on weekends so I called him back and he told me some really horrible news. Long story short, Nigeria happened. I immediately started calling all the people I could call (my parents, friends that lived close by) and prepped to go to Lagos the next morning.
My brother had passed and I couldn't wrap my head around it, to be very honest, I still haven't. Not being able to call someone or text them is just not normal, and this is after losing two very close friends. I started thinking I was the problem, I mean I'm just 30, how many more people will I bury before I start getting to "that" age where all your friends start dying. I couldn't grieve though, work needed to be done. I had to take inventory of his things, go to the morgue, engage the people to embalm his body, get his death certificate, register the death, bought a casket, get a plot to put the casket in, plan the service of songs; there was so much more that we did. I don't think I'd ever received as many calls and texts as I received during that time. I just wanted get shit done, so I could grieve, and they wanted someone to talk to, I also wanted someone to talk to, but I didn't have that luxury.
I've always contemplated how wonderful a life is because only the living have agency, only one that has life can dream and execute. Once you die everything stops. I wonder what the dead think about, are they already at the end of time? Or do they have a different experience.  I was genuinely afraid of dying and the concept of it during that time that I was driving more carefully and have ever since.  Anyway, I've not been really ok (random waves of sadness, crying in my dreams or when I listen to songs we used to lip sync together) since it happened, but I'll be fine eventually and life must continue. I want to live for many reasons if only to see how things turn out.

The funny and depressing part about the next sequence of events is that a week after burying my brother, my wife had a medical emergency and needed surgery. At that point I was scared as hell because what were the odds.
Thankfully she came out of it healthy. We had another scare towards the very end of the year but thank goodness it was a relatively minor issue.  

We applied for a visa in a European country in October, I'm legitimately done with Nigeria tbh. I just don't have it within me anymore to put up with the daily bullshit.
Plus I want to live in a place where the people are happy with their lives and **cherish life**. I just can't do that here, the general outlook of the world is already bleak, make I hear word abeg.

I'm coming to terms with what my life is now, my house is always scattered and I barely get 6 hours sleep daily, but I'm happy with work and in my small corner of the world.  
Watching my son grow up is such a wonderful and fulfilling thing to experience. From the early days when he couldn't sleep himself
to today (he's 11 months old now) when he's walking with assistance and can eat solid food. It's been a wild ride.
- During the pregnancy
- During the conception
- Post conception
- Naming Ceremony
- Sleepless nights 😫
- Not knowing what he wants (omg the crying 🙄)
- Using His eyes to focus on things to properly see them
- Rolling from his back to his tummy
- Saying "words" 😂
- Sitting upright
- Eating semi-solid food
- Crawling
- Eating solid food 🥶
- Walking with assistance 🤗
- Scattering the house 🙄

Omo, I'm still tired and burnt out, but it can't be helped, work has to be done. My wish for you reading this is 

May your Ls turn to Ws,
And your oofs to big Yeets,
Keep your vibes Based,
Your wins, total Fax,
Flex your skills in all you pursue,
Stay grinding, no time to relax.

Here's to another 365 (366 I think). Happy New Year 🎊🕛