---
title: about
date: 2017-05-03 22:21:16
---

# About

## Me
My name is Raymond Tukpe. I am a software engineer with over eight years of professional experience. I graduated top of my class with a BSc in Computer Science from the University of Lagos, Nigeria. I have a strong background in software engineering and technical leadership and have worked at two startups and an industry-leading bank, building and scaling complex cloud, enterprise, and user-facing software, delivering successful products across a range of industries, including EdTech, Fintech, Gaming, and Developer Tooling.

## Work
I am passionate about creating sustainable, impactful, and innovative products. One of my proudest achievements was founding [Gomoney](https://gomoney.global/home/), a neobank at Sterling Bank, which Monzo heavily influenced. Building a bank in the cloud was incredibly exciting, and the transparency with which Monzo was built set the standard for how I wanted to approach my product development. Gomoney is a highly successful product with over 500K Nigerians as at when I left in June 2021, processing over 10 million transactions daily. As the founding engineer, I built the core product and the various engineering teams, growing the team from 2 to 20 people. As the technology lead at Gomoney, I led and coordinated the multiple engineering teams to build innovative solutions into the product and worked closely with the product, finance, and banking operations teams on strategy and other technical support functions. I am also passionate about giving back to the community, leading me to train and mentor interns and upskill them to become capable software engineers.

I am also very proud of my work on [Convoy](https://getconvoy.io/), where I serve as CTO. Convoy is an open-source developer tooling company that enables software product companies of all sizes to send and receive webhook events. Convoy was accepted into Y-Combinator's winter batch in 2022 and raised over $700K in venture capital. At Convoy, we are building world-class open-source technology that will improve how teams build and architect products.  At Convoy, I wear multiple hats, leading product development (engineering and infrastructure) while working on blog content, managing the community, and planning/scoping out the company’s short-term and long-term strategy. As of today, Convoy boasts over 2500 Github stars, a community of over 900 developers, over 20 active customers in the US, India, Africa, and the EU using our cloud platform, and has published and received over a billion webhook events in our cloud platform.